Another thing that we can do is use
the browser's built in debugger.
So we have in our dev tools here,
we've seen so
far we have our inspector,
where we can look at our HTML and our CSS.
We have our console where we can talk
to JavaScript as we've been seeing.
And we have a tab called debugger.
What this does is,
it is really really handy feature
built into most browsers like Firefox and
Chrome.
Both have really great kind of
developer workflows for this.
And what it does is, it lets us see all
of the code that our pages running,
in this case it's coming
from this HTML file.
But if we were working with
a bunch of different modules,
we might be seeing those
different.js files in here.
And it shows us the source code that we're
running through when we run this file.
And so here for example, I'm trying
to load my doggo fetch page, and
something is going wrong, I'm not getting
my doggo, my doggo is not fetching.
So let's try to find out what is going on.
So, one thing we can do in our code
is write a special keyword, debugger.
And again,
this is maybe a temporary thing.
But what we can do is if we
insert a debugger statement,
which is just the word debugger and
a semicolon usually.
What that does is it creates
what we call a breakpoint or
a pause in our JavaScript program.
And if we are running our code in
our browser with the debugger open,
JavaScript will pause there.
And let us look around and
see what's going on.
So let's try to add one in our code,
something is going wrong.
So let's go to our loadData function,
our loadQuizData function.
Now we know that this line is
working because I see the words
fetching doggo in my webpage,
so that happened.
So something is going wrong after that.
So why don't we just put a little debugger
statement right here, I'm gonna save.
Now I'm going to go back to my,
I'm loading this local file in my browser,
I'm going to refresh.
And now we see this little message
paused on debugger statement.
And in my debugger,
I see this big pause here, and
I see that we are now at this
line of code 191 in our case,
where I had that debugger statement.
Okay, now there's a lot going on here,
so let's take a look.
One of the things that we can
see here are, there's this, and
it's slightly different
in different browsers.
So right now I'm in Firefox, if you're in
Chrome it's gonna look slightly different.
But the browsers all
have kind of concepts of
being able to investigate what's
happening in our program.
So, one thing we have here is what's
called the function call stack.
Not getting into a ton of details about
this, but this is essentially JavaScript's
notion of when I'm calling a function
within a function within a function.
JavaScript stacks them up and
sort of says all right,
right now we are in our module,
in our HTML module.
And we are inside our
loadQuizData function,
that is the function that's
currently being called.
So that's what we say is at
the top of the call stack.
Now we also have, we have a whole
bunch of other stuff going on.
But one thing we have is,
here in Firefox we can see these,
the scopes that are in play right now.
So which variables are in play?
And we have in this case,
we're inside our loadQuizData function.
So we have our local
function scope with various
values that we're gonna
have inside this function.
So for example, it already knows because
it read ahead in our code a little bit, it
already knows that we're about to declare
some new variables like doggo image,
URL, and correct breed.
But we haven't declared or
assigned values to them yet, so
it shows them that they're uninitialized.
But as we're running our code, we can
see the different values of things here.
So let's go ahead,
what we're gonna do now we're paused, but
what we wanna do is what's
called step through our program.
So we wanna take it real slow, and
go one step at a time through our code and
find out what JavaScript is doing.
You'll notice in your
debugger some buttons, and
they're gonna look slightly different
in different browsers that allow you to
control the movements of
the debugger through your code.
So one of them is going to be like
a play button that just says, hey,
keep trying to run.
And that's going to run
until the next breakpoint or
the next debugger
statement that we've set.
And another one that we're
going to have is to step over.
Let's see if this shows up.
It's called step over, meaning step into
the next line of code and try to run it.
So let me move this down so we can see
a little bit more of our code here.
Okay, so
if we step over this debugger line.
Now we're gonna go to the next line and
JavaScript is going to do the next thing.
And the next thing that it has to do
is await this fetch message call.
And so nothing has really
changed in our scopes so far.
Another option that we have in our
stepping through our debugger code when
we're about to call
a function like fetchMessage,
is we can do what's called
stepping into the function.
So this is where we're not just
going to call the function,
we're actually going to break
it down even further than that.
And we're gonna step into
the fetchMessage function code.
So if I now press Step in,
it's going to advance JavaScript
into the next function call.
So let me click that.
Now we've jumped into our
fetchMessage function.
And we haven't really done anything yet,
but
if we look in our scopes,
we can see that we are now in a new scope.
Now we're in the fetchMessage
function scope, and
that's gonna have some other values here.
And what we're trying to do is
understand what is going wrong,
and so now we can see that for
example inside of our fetchMessage
we had this parameter URL.
And URL now has a value
inside of our function scope,
inside of our fetchMessage
scope of this string.
And if anybody has a really good eye,
maybe they can spot something.
But for now, let's just say this is gonna
give us some information about what
fetchMessage is seeing
that might be useful.
So now the next thing JavaScript
is gonna do is try to call
that fetch built in function.
We don't really need to step into that
function because that's gonna be a lot of
complicated stuff, and
we didn't write that code.
So for now, we can pretty much
trust fetch is gonna do its job.
But we can do is step over this function,
this next line of code or
this next thing that
JavaScript is gonna do,
which we want it to try to run this
line const response equals await fetch.
Question.
>> Name of the breed is missing.
>> So the name of the breed is missing.
So actually we were looking at
a few different endpoints on this dog API.
Let's look at the dog CEO API
documentation real quick.
It's a fun one for projects and
for testing stuff out.
So we had, for example, earlier been
looking at this kind of url, right?
Like breed slash hound slash images or
in our case we were looking for,
wow, that's a lot of images.
Okay, okay, all right.
[LAUGH] We were looking for
sub breeds for example earlier.
So, we had used this endpoint of
slash breed slash hound slash list,
where we did need to include
the name of the breed.
But there's actually another
endpoint which is what
we're using in our random guest
the dog page here which is our game,
which is this endpoint to
fetch a single random image.
And that was what was returning back
a JSON object with the message property
being some specific image URL.
Which we can then use as the source of
the image element that we're loading
into our page.
So this is the endpoint
that we're trying to hit.
Does anybody notice anything
that's going on here.
So the endpoint that we
need to hit is dog dot ceo
slash api slash breeds
slash image slash random.
If we go back into our debugger,
we can look at the URL value here.
And we can even,
if we go into our console,
right now we're paused in our JavaScript.
We're paused in the middle, and we're in
the middle of this fetch message function.
So we can access anything in that
function scope, even at the console.
Now because we're paused, we're in matrix
bullet time state of JavaScript here,
so we can stop and look around.
And so if anybody notices something
about this URL that we're trying to hit.
We'll call it out in a second.
But let's just double check what's
happening here, why this page isn't,
what's happening where we're
hitting an error in this page.
So what we're gonna do is we're just
gonna keep trying to run our code.
So I'm going to use step over to
try to run the next line of code.
And, a little error thing popped up here,
and if I go to my console,
I see that I get a 404 not found error.
Which yeah,
we can check again on our httpcat404,
means, a resource was not found.
You've probably run into this
before when you find it,
a lot of websites have a 404 page, that
says, no I couldn't find your web page.
So this is that error,
which means there is nothing at
the URL that we tried to fetch from.
And so if we check this string, so the URL
string that we're trying to look for
is dog dot ceo slash api slash
breeds slash image slash rando,
instead of what the API documentation
says we should be getting,
which is slash random.
So somehow I accidentally
deleted a M from my URL here,
and so there's nothing at that endpoint.
That endpoint doesn't exist in this API,
there is no resource there.
So we're getting this 404 error.
Now this is just one example, and
we actually probably could have seen that
error pop up in the console before anyway,
we had run the debugger.
But just to show you that it
could have been something else,
it could have been perhaps I
had an undefined somewhere
that I can see by looking at my scopes and
seeing what is coming back there.
And so we can set these breakpoints.
One way that we can do it is
with that debugger statement.
Another way that we can do
it is even if we don't wanna
edit our code right in our JavaScript.
So let's go back and
take out our debugger statement.
Take it back out.
So now if I run the page again,
if I refresh Well,
if I finish running this page and
then refresh, it didn't pause because
I have no debugger statement.
I still got my error.
So I could see in the console that there
was this network error of a 404 response.
But I could also set a breakpoint
manually in the debugger
tools by clicking on
the number of a line of code.
And again, each browser has a slightly
different interface, but they all pretty
much work this way, that you can click
on the number for a line of code.
So, if I wanted to do the equivalent
thing of my the debugger
statement that I set in
between these lines here.
I can do that in the browser by
clicking on this line here, and
we'll see it enter it's inserted
it's a little pause point.
So, now If I rerun the page,
it's going to pause on that break point.
So, we have two ways of setting
a break point, we can use the debugger
statement in our code or we can set it
by clicking on the line in our debugger.
Question?
>> Sorry if you already fixed this but
they're saying spelling incorrectly
spelled the word random.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah so this turns out to be the
problem here which we can see by looking
at that.
And here let's we can just do it again
just to show that it works the same even
without our debugger statement.
Now we're paused in the same
place that we were paused before,
we're just using it by clicking
into the dev tools in the debugger.
We clicked on a line of code
to set a breakpoint instead of
using the debugger statement,
they do the same thing.
So now I can again step over and see that.
Sorry, let me reload, I actually wanted to
step into, I can step into fetchMessage.
And in my scope of fetchMessage,
I can see that URL ends in rando,
which I could also check by asking for
URL in the console.
Because again,
we're paused inside the function,
so we have access to the function scope.
And I see oops, I forgot an M.
So now I can go back to my file and
put the M where it's supposed to be and
save.
And now, if I reload the page Sorry,
so right now I'm paused, so
JavaScript isn't gonna do anything.
I can resume,
I can play through to the rest of
my code by pressing the play button here.
So now I'm gonna reload the page.
Now that I've made my fix,
we're still paused on this break
point because I didn't
remove the break point yet.
But now,
if I step in to my fetchMessage function,
I see that the URL now inside
of my fetchMessage scope.
Just gotta move this up, so
we can see a little better,
inside of my fetchMessage scope I now
see that the URL has that M on it.
Okay, so we should be looking better.
Let's try, let's step over this fetch and
make sure that we get back.
So we were stepping through our function,
we had finally stepped out of
the fetchMessage function.
And so we stepped through,
now we see that the doggo
image URL was set to an actual JPEG
image URL, which is what we expected.
Great.
So now feeling pretty confident
that the problem was solved,
and we can continue with
the rest of our program.
And so what is called resume the execution
of the program, I can tell JavaScript,
okay, we're done pausing,
we're done stepping,
we can just go ahead and keep running.
And in fact,
I don't need my breakpoint anymore.
So what I can do is remove my breakpoint,
which I had set by clicking
on this line number.
I can click on the line number
again to remove the breakpoint so
that the next time I reload the page,
it won't pause there.
And I can hit this Play button
to resume loading the page, and
it runs through the rest of the script.
And I get my adorable little doggo
which we saw [LAUGH] was an.
So this is just a really to let you
know that the debugger is there to be
your friend, to help you figure out
what is going on in your program
which is especially useful
when we're working in modules.
And we can't see those global scope
variables because the module has its
own scope.
If we pause in the execution
with the debugger breakpoint,
we can examine the scope and
see what's going on.
And so this can be a useful tool.
But you can also console a log from within
a function to find out what is going on,
and what the values of things are.
Make sure you've got the right
strings that you thought you had, etc.